[DESCRIPTION]
NATION      = Germany
OBJECT      = PzKpfw III F
TEXT        =
           Panzerkampfwagen III Ausf F

Designation: Medium Tank            Crew: 5
Dimensions: 2.91m x 2.51m x 5.52m   Weight: 19.8 tons
Engine: 320hp V12 Maybach HL120TRM  Speed: 42 km/h
Gearbox: 10 forward, 4 reverse      Range: 165 km
Radio: 10 watt FuG5 (2-4km range)
Armament:
  1x 3.7cm KwK L/45, 131 rounds total
  3x 7.92mm MG34, 4,500 rounds total
Armor:
  Hull: 16-30mm, front plates face hardened
  Turret: 10-35mm, front plates face hardened

Information:

  The Panzer III, along with its brother the Panzer IV,
was one of the main German tanks that went into battle
during the early war invasions of Poland, France, North
Africa, and Russia. It went through many variations,
Ausf A to Ausf N (including several command tanks), and
was the back bone of the German Whermacht up until mid
1942 when it started being phased out by the Panzer IV
'Special'. This change was due to a need to mount more
powerful weapontry to combat the mass numbers of enemy
tanks that were being encountered on the field. The last
recorded action these tanks saw was in June of 1944.

  The defining feature of the Panzer III was mobility.
It had a powerful 320 horsepower Maybach V-12 engine,
good torsion bar suspension, and deeply cut tracks.
Although for its entire life span, as compared to the
foes it was to face, was lacking in terms of both
firepower and armor protection, it proved to be an
effective tank in its day and age when given a good
crew (and a few AP40 rounds).

  Like the Panzer IV, the Panzer III had a five man
crew where each crew member had a specific function.
This allowed for each crew member to concentrate on
one sole task, allowing for greater command and control
of the tank itself in combat. In addition to the five
man crew, the commander's cupola had an opening hatch
which allowed for greater visiblity. Along with a radio
being installed in each tank that was produced, this
setup allowed for an excellent underlaying basis for the
tank to operate upon.

Advantages:
 - Good mobility
 - Five man crew
 - Cupola, with opening hatch
 - Radio

Disadvantages:
 - Poor armor protection
 - Poor weapontry (comparitevly)
 - Poor camoflauge

Featured Information:

  A commonly misinterpreted piece of information is
that there were Panzer III's with 5.0cm guns that
participated in the fighting in France; this has been
shown to be false. Production of the first 5.0cm rounds
was not until June of 1940, and even then only for the
several Pak38 anti-tank guns coming off the assembly
lines, none of which are recorded as participating in
the fighting in France. However, in the following month
after fighting ceased in France, Panzer III Ausf G's
with 5.0cm guns did start coming off the assembly lines.
If the fighting in France had extended longer than the
six weeks it did, these tanks could have possibly made
it into action.

  Another misinterpreted piece of information is the
usage of AP40 (aka Pz.Gr.40, tungsten cored ammunition,
or APCR) by the Panzer III during the invasion into
France. Official German ammunition production reports
along with several combat AARs show that the first usage
of these rounds were, more than likely, in early June of
1940, making their appearence during the last two weeks
of fighting in France. This topic is still debatable
given the situation these pieces of information do
contain, but it appears as if there is more evidence
that supports its usage than there is that does not.

 The one last mystery is the usage of the two toned
camoflauge of dark grey and signal brown. Official
German documents record that the German Whermacht did
not officially change over to overall dark grey until
after the invasion of France had came to conclusion.
Due to the close resemblence of the coloring of these
two paints in black and white photos, it is almost
impossible to determine if vehicles had two toned
camoflauge unless pictures were taken in favourable
lighting conditions. However, there exists photo
evidence of newly painted Panzer IIIs that are clearly
visibile to be painted in two-toned camoflauge, but
there also exists colored photo evidence of Panzer IIIs
in overall dark grey without any possible hint of
two-toned camoflauge. Both ways, it is still a mystery
if there was in fact any two-toned camoflauged Panzer
IIIs which participated in Poland or France.
